---
titie: "Secure Database Design"
layout: page
---

# Introduction
In this project, I was tasked with designing a database system where a person between the database and the local machine would be not be able to read and tamper with whatever was being sent. The steps to solve this problem are: define structs that have a signature and a encryption key, then design an algorithm that encrypts both user data and files, and lastly design functions that comfirms and decrypts the data. The end result was a system that prevents malicious attacks through data packets.

# Design
DataStore will store all created structs and the KeyStore will store the public keys for verification and encryption

### Struct Definitions
* User: username, salt and password hash, encrypted RSA private keys for communicating with other users, encrypted keys for files
* UserFileKeyChain: Stores keys to files and keys to file tokens if recipient, also stores file UUIDs
* FileToken: Stores keys to shared file
* File: Holds the user map, the keys to recipient’s tokens (so owner could edit keys), and the file data

### Algorithms
* InitUser(): Create the user struct by inserting username, creating a password hash from Argon2Key() and the salt from prng.  Create RSA private keys, and keys for the keychain. Encrypt all keys and sign the User struct. Marshal and put into DataStore under user.
* GetUser(): Get the data from the DataStore under user and unmarshal into data struct. Authenticate the struct, authenticate password, then return the User struct
* StoreFile(): If the file is a new file, we would generate file keys, create a file struct, encrypt the data and the metadata, then put the file into the database. If shared, we would first decrypt the file token that we have to get the keys, then rewrite the existing data using the keys.
* LoadFile(): Verify the file tag, then decrypt the file data.
* AppendFile(): Verify integrity of the file. Use the AES-CBC decryption on the last block, add data starting at the last byte, then encrypt using the previous block as the IV.
* ShareFile(): Generate a set of keys to be shared to a collaborator of file, shared keys, which the owner will use to edit the file keys the recipient owns. Next, use RSA and send the shared keys under the recipient's public key, then write the file keys in receiver/shared/filename using the shared keys.
* Receive File(): Verify the sender. Then, verify the file. Then put ourselves in the user map and create shared keys so the owner could edit our file token at any time.
* RevokeFile(): The owner first generates a new pair of file keys. Then we would re-encrypt the file and sign using this new key pair. Then our user map and recursively share the new file keys to every party except for the user they want revoked. 

### Security Issues Solved
* Corrupt User Info: Let’s say that the attacker changes the info of the user in order to gain more privilege. Without knowing the password, the HMAC tag would be different when the user logs in and thus will error out.

* Man in the Middle Attack (access token): Let’s say that the attack intercepts the request for the access token. Because we are using digital signatures and because the attacker doesn’t know the sender’s private key, we know that the receiver would detect that the access token has been tampered with.

* Revoking access (appending to file): Let’s say that the attacker somehow gets the name of the file in the datastore. The attacker then appends to the file some foreign ciphertext. If the owner or the other users try to load the file, they can immediately detect a breach of integrity by comparing the hash of the file to the cipher key.

* Man in the Middle Attack (storing to server): Let’s say the attacker tries to change the file of some user in the middle of storing it to the server. When the user opens up the file, they would notice that the HMAC sign in is different from the hash that they made with the key.



