---
title: "EE140 Project"
layout: page
---

# Link to PDF

# Introduction

For this project, I was tasked with designing an amplifier that needed to meet certain specs using a CMOS 45nm technology node.
The tool for this project was in Cadence. Only the simulation and verification part of designing the op amp was used (i.e. no layout).

In a typical differential amplifier design, there are certain things to look out for, mainly the speed, the error, 
how much power it is using, and how much area on the dye it takes up. These contraints translate into different problems which include:
the slew rate, the gain, the different 3db poles, the phase margin, the sizing of the transistors, etc..

I would eventually solve all these problems and come up with a good topology for the system, along with the sizing for each transistor in the system.


### A. Overview



- The first stage (M1 to M4) is a differential pair with a PMOS active load and an NMOS input. The current for both branches is biased using M5 and M8.
- The second stage (M6 to M7) is a PMOS common source amplifier. The PMOS is biased using the first stage’s active load and the current is biased using M7 and M8.
- The biasing stage is a current mirror using a diode connected transistor (M8) and an ideal current source
- The compensation capacitor is there for pole/zero placement and stability. This should have a nulling resistor to cancel out the zero that is formed from this fork in the signal path. However, for reasons told later, it is not needed. 




### B. Design
### 1. High Level Design Approach
- First, I chose a topology that would use low power and give high speed while being easy to analyze for debugging. This topology was ultimately the two stage design with a simple differential pair as first stage and common source amplifier for second stage. The only problem with this topology is achieving a high gain and good output swing. Other topologies were too hard to bias with the low VDD (cascode), uses too much power (gain-boosted cascode or folded-cascode), or can’t supply enough output current within an output swing (simple differential pair).
- Next, I determined how I would like to split the total error. Based on that I could ultimately determine specs such as phase margin, unity gain frequency, and DC gain for each stage to reduce our error.
- Lastly, I decided that to further optimize for power and settling time, I would use the MATLAB lookup tables and iterate through parameters (Cc, GM_ID1, GM_ID2) which pass specs. In the end, I chose a design that attempts to meet the specs and errors, while using up a reasonable area.


### 2. Overview of Design Method
First, we determine the settling time of the LCD screen. This is 180 ns.

Pixels per second = (60 frames / second) * (272 * 340 pixels / frame)
Required Settling Time = 1 / (Pixels per second) = 180.219 ns 

Next, we must determine the settling error and the dynamic error of our system. These equations are:

````

error_static = 1/ (A * f)
error_dynamic = e ** -(f * wu * Ts)
(f is feedback factor, A is open loop DC gain, wu is unity gain frequency, Ts is settling time)

````

In my solution, the optimal way to split the error was to give more error to the static error and less error for dynamic. The error was split as: static error = 0.19%, dynamic error = 0.1%. This means:

````

wu >= -log(error_dynamic) / (f * Ts) or wu >= 24.4 MHz * 2 * pi

A  >= 1 / (f * error_static) or A >= 1578.94 (V/V), 63.96 dB
 
````

Next, we find the poles and zeros of the loop gain so that we can determine phase margin. 

````

Unity Gain Frequency: wu = gm2 / Cc

Poles: wp1 = 1 / gm2(ro2||ro4)(ro6||ro7)Cc, wp2 = gm6 / (CL,total * (1 + Cc / Cgg6) + Cgg6)

Zeros:   wz = gm6 / Cc, or with nulling resistor, wz = 1 / (Cc * (Rz -  (1/gm6)))

````

The phase margin is:

````
PM = 180 - arctan(wu / wp1) - arctan(wu / wp2) - arctan(wu / wz) - arctan(wu / w_parasitics)
PM = 90 - arctan(wu / wp2) - arctam(wu/wz) 
````

We choose the poles to be, through the GM/ID method:

````
wp1 = 9.64E4, wp2 = 13.42E6  
````

Thus the phase margin is around 70 degrees given the chosen GM/ID for each transistor.


From this we have:

````

gm2 >= wu * Cc, or gm2 = 17.101 uS

gm6  = wp2 * (CL,total * (1 + Cc / Cgg6) + Cgg6), or gm6 = 0.3mS
   
````

Next we need to find the bias currents which came down to choosing a bias which won’t slew. The bias current of M6 would limit our max slope, our min slope is limited by current through M2.  Thus we have:

````
Output Max Slope =  dVout/dt = ID6 / CL,total
ID6 >= (Vout, pp / Ts) * CL,total, or ID6 >= 233.333 uA

Output Min Slope = dVout/dt = ID2 / CC
ID2 >= (Vout,pp / Ts) * Cc, or ID2 >= 5.444 uA

````
We choose ID6 = 250 uA and ID2 = 6 uA.

The total power being used based on these calculations is thus:

````
Total Power = (ID6 + 2*ID2 + IDbias) * Vdd = 0.51 mW  
````

To obtain the output swing, we require that our second stage has a GM/ID greater than 10. ( Vov  2 / (GM/ID)6) 0.2 V )

````
Output Swing = Vdd - 2* (2 / (GM/ID)6 ) >= 1.4 Vpp
````
Lastly, using the GM/ID method, we need to find the widths, lengths, and biasing for each transistor. We loop through GM/ID of the first and second stage and the compensation capacitor values in order to find the optimal solution.

The length is chosen to be where the transit frequency of transistors on the signal path is greater than the unity gain frequency. This length is also chosen to increase the output resistance of each transistor, because this topology is limited by two output resistances in parallel. To get more gain, we would have to use up more area with this topology. The bias and the widths are then determined by lookup tables, first going through the second stage, then sizing the first stage based on the bias of the second stage. 

### Transistor Sizing


### Simulation

For simulation, I used Cadence and different topologies for my circuit with the load.

### Performance


### Summary and Conclusion

Overall, the amplifier was decent, it met most specs except for the speed spec. If I were to change anything I would probably try finding a data sheet of the transistor and validate my calculations from the computer into hand calculations. I was pretty satisfied with the project



