---
title: "CS162 Project"
layout: page
---

## Introduction

PintOS is a fully functional operating system made in C and x86 assembly. It is based on typical Linux systems.
The functionality includes getting a command and running it based on the arguments,
a fully functional heap and stack for programs, multiple threads running concurrently,
and a directory structure for files.

The main goal of this project was to build several important systems within the OS.
These systems are: the kernel system calls, the thread scheduler, and the file system.

We will do a little overview of each part on this page.

### System Calls
Every operating system needs to be able to service any program that calls upon it. For instance,
if a program needs to read a file, write to a file, needs memory etc., the kernel is usually the one to provide it.
Thus, programs would have to escape from the user program control flow and then give control to the kernel.
The kernel would have to be coded with different pieces of functionality so that most system calls can be serviced.

### Thread scheduler
Now, every program needs resources including memory and time. How do we know which program to run and which to not in a given time?
Well, this operating system has a priority scheduler which keeps track of what processes are running and runs processes based on the user's given priority.
To process a thread, we would first have to get some pages from RAM keeping track of the process's pages. Then put the program on the scheduler so that it can load the instructions into memory.
Then while it runs, we can do context switching in order to switch between threads. When the thread is done, we empty out it's stack and keep track of the exit code.


### File System
Lastly, the file system is needed to actually page out memory for threads and files. A LRU cache is implemented to keep track of addresses and to make threads faster.
Then, the actual structure of the file system is created through the use of inodes, and functions around the inodes are introduced to abstract the reading and writing process for files.
Next, directory objects and file objects are created to keep track of what files users create. Lastly, the starting process of the system is changed.



### Links to each part of the system is here (design only)

[System Calls](../System-Calls)

[Thread Scheduler](../Thread-Scheduler)

[File System](../File-System)
